dcode: document interactive `/goal` management and grading UX (#4877)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/deepagents/code/goals-and-rubrics.mdx

## Choose a goal or rubric

> Use a **goal** when you have one measurable objective and want Deep Agents Code to draft acceptance criteria before it starts. A goal has a lifecycle: once accepted it stays active across turns until you pause it, the agent marks it completed or blocked, or you clear it. You can also amend an active goal without restarting the work. The current objective and its state stay visible in a panel above the input.

Author: ```suggestion
Use a **goal** when you have one measurable objective and want Deep Agents Code to draft acceptance criteria before it starts. A goal has a lifecycle: once accepted it stays active across turns until you pause it, the agent marks it completed or blocked, or you clear it. You can also amend an active goal without restarting the work.
```

/goal add OAuth refresh handling
```

> Deep Agents Code drafts a short, outcome-focused checklist of acceptance criteria for review before starting the task. The proposal is usually a flat list of 2–5 criteria centered on observable results rather than implementation, documentation, or testing steps you did not request. Explicit names, paths, commands, and wording from your objective are preserved. When the objective refers to an existing file, symbol, or behavior, the generator can inspect narrowly scoped, read-only repository context to ground the criteria; if that context is unavailable, it drafts from the objective alone.

Author: ```suggestion
Deep Agents Code drafts acceptance criteria for review before starting the task.
```

check the docs too
```

The goal panel above the input shows the current objective and whether it is active, paused, blocked, or completed. Use `/goal show` to inspect the current goal, and `/goal clear` to remove it.

### Amend, pause, and resume a goal

Steer an ongoing goal without cancelling the current task and replaying work:

> - `/goal amend <feedback>` proposes coordinated updates to the objective and criteria while preserving criteria and constraints your feedback did not change. The amendment goes through the same inline review (accept, edit, revise, or cancel) before it becomes canonical. If you amend during an active turn, the update applies after that turn finishes and before the next turn begins.

Author: ```suggestion
- `/goal amend <feedback>` proposes coordinated updates to the objective and criteria. The amendment goes through the same inline review (accept, edit, revise, or cancel) before finalizing.
```

> - `/goal pause` saves the goal without letting it drive work or grading, so intervening prompts run without it. `/goal resume` reactivates the saved goal and continues from the existing conversation and checkpoint instead of resubmitting the original objective.

Author: ```suggestion
- `/goal pause` saves the goal without letting it drive work or grading, so intervening prompts run without it. `/goal resume` reactivates the saved goal and continues from the existing conversation.
```

```text
/goal amend remove JSON export, add streaming CSV support, keep the CSV tests
/goal pause
/goal resume
```

### Completion and grading

Each follow-up turn is graded against the goal's acceptance criteria until the work is done.

- When a goal's completion is approved, Deep Agents Code clears the goal

> - Grader results use outcome-specific statuses so you can tell incomplete work apart from a rubric or grader problem: `Acceptance criteria not yet satisfied`, `Acceptance criteria not yet satisfied (iteration limit reached)`, `Rubric is invalid or cannot be evaluated`, and `Acceptance criteria check failed`. Each result suggests a next step.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - When a goal's completion is approved, Deep Agents Code clears the goal and its criteria so later prompts start clean; `/goal show` then reports `No goal set`. The completion message and evidence remain in the thread transcript.

Author: ```suggestion
- When a goal's completion is approved, Deep Agents Code clears the goal
```

> - A blocked goal stays active and resumable because it still needs your input. If a completion cannot be saved, the goal and its pending completion remain active and are re-graded on the next turn.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The transcript shows one concise result line per grade. Click it or press `Ctrl+O` to open a scrollable detail view with the full explanation, every unmet criterion, and the recommended next step.

Author: ```suggestion
```
